Hello, this is Yoshiki Ohshima.  I'd like to present a particle
simulation system, which is originally designed for high school
students to write physics simulations.  But later, we are trying to
extend the language for other services.

Like I said, the primary taget of this language was high school
students who are learning sciences.  I would like students to do some
real science experiments as well as computer simulation to learn
science concepts deeply.  To illstrate the idea, we made a vacuum
cannon.

show youtube.

This is a physics phenomenon that is created by the movement of air
molecules.

I switch to actual demo.  Here I have a text area, where you write
your Shadama program.  This area shows the result, and here are some
controls to run things.  Due to the time constraint, I cannot go into
the details of the actual concepts of the language, but it follows Logo
and StarLogo tradition. 　We refer to mobile objects as turtles.
Here, we declare a breed of turtle such that each turtle will have
properties "x", "y", "r", "g", "b" and "a".

Here I am allocating 3,000 turtles.

Those dots may be hard to see, but we can increase the number of
turtles to 30,000, 300,000 or 1 million.

What we want to do next is to move those turtles around. So we
define a method called "move".

Move increments the x and y of the turtles. We call the move method
from a static function "step".  When we click the "step" clock, "step"
is repeatedly executed and the turtles move.  Interestingly, while
they are moving, we can edit the program on the fly and the changes
take effect as soon as we hit Cmd-S.  We could even allow each
individual turtle to have its own velocity. So let's add properties
"dx" and "dy" to each turtle. Then, we use them in "move". Here we
increment the "x" and "y" of each turtle according to their "dx" and
"dy".  We use the primitive "fillRandomDir" to set the "dx" and "dy"
to be the x and y components of a randomly-chosen direction
vector. Now, all turtles move in their own individual directions.
Let's run it again by executing "setup" manually.

What happens if we change the dy at a constant rate?  That is a
simulation of constant accereration, or graivty.  Let us try it again.

If we add some conditions to specify what happens when a particle hits
an edge of the area it looks like this.  Thsoe four if statements dictates what happens on the edges.

We are now going to create a simulation with large objects. To do so,
we use what's called a "patch". A patch is a 2D grid of cells where
turtles can store values. Here, we create a patch called "Field", and
add "r", "g", "b", and "a" properties for each cell.  And, we define a
breed called "Filler" that operates on the Field.  In "setup", we use
a primitive called "fillSpace", which creates turtles of the Filler
breed and places them at all integral grid points.  Here we define a method to draw a shape. "fillCircle" works by having each Filler
turtle check whether it is within the radius of the circle. If it is,
it writes the value into their corresponding cell.  In the "setup"
function, we call "fillCircle" and get a circle at (100, 100).

Now let's tie it all together. This code has methods we used
previously, such as "setColor". "fillCircle" is slightly modified so that
it sets normal vectors for the circle in the patch.`
In the "move"
method, each turtle checks the normal in the patch cell where the turtle is
located and computes a new direction from the dot product with the normal. When we run
this, particles bounce off the circle and make a beautiful pattern.
However, it is a bit hard to see because the colors of the turtles are too
similar. Here, we change the "setColor" method so that instead of using "x"
and "y" position, we use the velocity "dx" and "dy" to determine the turtles'
color.

Then we call "setColor" from "loop", so that the colors are updated continuously.
Here, horizontal velocity corresponds with reddish color, and vertical
velocity corresponds with greenish color. The visualization can be quickly adjusted
to match how you prefer to view the simulation.
For fun, you can make two circles that move symmetrically.
Here's an interesting variation of our program. Instead of modeling gravity as pulling downward, gravity follows
the inverse square law in relation to the mouse pointer location. It looks like
there are large structures, but it's actually just a
quarter million particles from regular initial positions, all following the inverse square law.

When I gave a talk on this system for the first time, I tried to open
my talk in a joke slide.

At the company we are trying to start, we are working on VR/AR system,
where a company executive can look at various data.  As our idea DNA
always trace back to a fully constructive end-user systems, we have an
environment where a user can create interesting objects in the system.  But also, we have a 

